jbit(1) -- 6502 Assembler and Simulator
=======================================

## SYNOPSIS

`jbit` [<options>...] <file>

`jbit` [<options>...] -a <file> [<arg>...]

## DESCRIPTION

`jbit` simulates a fictional 8-bit processor. The emulated CPU is
similar to a regular 6502. The main difference is that it lacks BCD mode
and interrupts. BRK(0) terminates the processor. Almost the full 64K of
addressable memory is available: only page 2 is shadowed by the IO chip
and therefore inaccessible to the programmer. Code is loaded from page 3
and can be provided either in binary (jb) or in assembly (asm) form.

When the processor starts, it is attached to a device that defines and
limits its ability to interact with the environment. For example, the
_stdout_ device can only write characters to its standard output. On the
other hand, the _xv65_ device can spawn other processes, modify the file
system, and, if tools like nc(1) are installed, access the network. The
list of devices available depends on the system and can be found by
invoking jbit with the option <-d ?>.

jbit is the native version of _JBit_. JBit is also available for
feature phones or as a web application.

## GETTING STARTED

This section is an informal introduction on how to use `jbit`.  You can
find plenty of information on the
[6502](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MOS_Technology_6502) on the
Internet.  There is a also a [Beginner's
Tutorial](http://jbit.sourceforge.net//doc/tutorial_en.html) on how to
start 6502 programming with JBit (J2ME). Here I assume that you are
already familiar with 6502 assembly and new to JBit.

Create a new file (e.g. _a.asm_):

    $a9 'A' $8d $00 $02

and run it:

    jbit a.asm

JBit has a binary format too, although it is mostly used on the J2ME
version of JBit (see [IO2][]).

    jbit -c jb a.asm >a.jb
    jbit a.jb

Let's have a look at the program.

Register $0200 is PUTCHAR, and when you write a character into it, that
character is sent to stdout.

Since its roots in feature phones, the preferred notation in JBit is
_decimal_. This is the same program:

    169 'A' 141 0 2

To work around clean numbers ($C000) becoming magic numbers (49152),
JBit uses the non-standard notation _page:offset_ for decimal words:

    169 'A' 141 2:0

You don't need to remember the location of the IO registers. If you
select a device, you get some symbols defined:

    .device "stdout"
    169 'A' 141 PUTCHAR

To see the list of the symbols defined for a particular device, type:

    jbit -s stdout

You can of course write the same program in assembly:
    .device "stdout"
    lda #'A'
    sta PUTCHAR

Check in the samples directories (in particular the format subdirectory)
for more information about the assembly format.

## OPTIONS

  * `-v`:
    Show the program version and exit.

  * `-d` <device>:
    Override the device used by the simulator. If <device> is <?>,
    show the list of the available devices and exit.

  * `-s` <device>:
    Show the symbols defined by the assembler for a given device.
    If <device> is <?>, show the list of the devices with symbols
    available.

  * `-c` jb|asm:
    Convert the program to a sequence of bytes, writing them to stdout.
    WARNING: the _jb_ format is a binary format!

## STDOUT

This is a very simple device and is the only one that can be emulated on
Windows.

Registers:

  * `PUTCHAR` (W):
     Mapped to putchar(3).

  * `PUTUINT8` (W):
     Send the decimal representation of a byte (0-255) to stdout.

  * `FRMDRAW` (W):
     Mapped to fflush(3). The value written doesn't matter, FRMDRAW
     always refer to stdout. If FRMFPS is != 0, also wait to keep
     the desired refresh rate.

  * `FRMFPS` (RW):
     The desired refresh rate in frames per seconds * 4. For example, 40
     means 10 frames per seconds.

## MICROIO

This device provides a display with a 10x4 matrix of characters (also
called console), a keypad similar to the ones found on classic phones
(keys 0-9, * and #) and two random number generators.

Registers:

  * `FRMDRAW` (W):
     Update the 10x4 display. The value written doesn't matter, FRMDRAW
     always refer to stdout. If FRMFPS is != 0, also wait to keep
     the desired refresh rate.

  * `FRMFPS` (RW):
     The desired refresh rate in frames per seconds * 4. For example, 40
     means 10 frames per seconds.

  * `RANDOM` (RW):
     On read: get a random number <= n (255 by default). On write: set n
     (if > 0), or swap the number generator (if == 0). There are two
     number generators: one (used by default) is initialized using the
     time at the start of the program, the other is initialized with
     a constant.

  * `KEYBUF` (8 bytes, RW):
     The standard KeyPresses (the ones that can be represented by ASCII
     codes; usually only 0-9, # and *) are enqueued starting from KEYBUF;
     the rest of the buffer is filled with 0s. Write into KEYBUF[0] to
     consume a KeyPress. If the buffer is full when a new key is pressed,
     that KeyPress is lost.

  * `CONVIDEO` (40 bytes, RW):
     Direct access to the 10x4 display matrix, disposed in row-major
     order: first the top row, then the second row, etc...

Simple programs aimed at 6502 beginner programmers are available in the
6502 subdirectory of the samples directory.

## REQUESTS

The two major devices in JBit are _xv65_ and _io2_. The underlying
systems they expose are completely different, but they share the same
basic communication mechanism: the request. A request is essentially a
function call to the host environment.

This is a xv65 request that makes the calling process sleep for 10
seconds:

    13 10

This is a io2 request that set the background color of the canvas to
pure blue:

    17 0 0 255

There are two mechanisms to issue a request.

You can write each byte of the request to REQPUT, and then signal the
end of the request by writing any value into REQEND.

    lda #13
    sta REQPUT
    lda #10
    sta REQPUT
    sta REQEND

For longer requests, you can store somewhere in memory the request
preceded by a 2-bytes word stating its length. You can then put the
address (including the length) into the REQPTRHI / REQPTRLO register
pairs.

    lda #>blue
    sta REQPTRHI
    lda #>blue
    sta REQPTRLO

    .data
    blue: 5 0 17 0 0 255

The order is important! The request is issued when REQPTRLO is written.
This allows to put multiple requests on the same page and to issue them
by writing only to REQPTRLO.

Counting the number of bytes of a requested might be error prone, so the
assembler provides a pair of directives to auto-compute the length of a
request:

    .data
    blue: .req
    17 0 0 255
    .endreq

## XV65

The device _xv65_ maps an extended subset of the traditonal Unix V6 API
(fork, exec, pipe, dup, write etc...) and it was inspired by the
beautiful [xv6](http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2012/xv6.html).  Chapter
0 of their
[textbook/comentary](http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2012/xv6/book-rev7.pdf)
is  especially relevant.

xv65 is quite a complex device. For an example of use, look at
xtermpal.asm in samples. xtermpal just prints out some xterm escape
characters to produce a color palette, and could have been written for
the stdout device.  However, since sending escape characters might
confuse other terminals, xtermpal uses the ENV request to query the
environment variable TERM and guard against running on a non-xterm
terminal.

At the moment, the best source of documentation for the xv65 device is
the code that was used to test it:

<https://github.com/efornara/cc65/blob/master/samples/xv65>

In particular, the following code shows the "syntax" of the requests:

<https://github.com/efornara/cc65/blob/master/samples/xv65/sys.c>

## IO2

The device _io2_ maps a significant subset of the MIDP2 API (including
sprites and tiled layers) and includes a PNG encoder to allow the
generation of images. It cannot be simulated by jbit, but you can still
use jbit to write programs for it. And if you have _java_ installed, you
can run the J2ME version of JBit using
[microemulator](http://www.microemu.org/) to test them.  Here are the
instructions on how to do that.

I assume that every file will be placed in a new directory and you are
working in it.

Get a io2 source file (for example, _smile.asm_ in the samples
directory).

Download _microemulator-2.0.4.zip_ from here:

<http://code.google.com/p/microemu/downloads/list>

Extract _microemulator.jar_ from the archive.

Check that it runs fine and the close it:

    java -jar microemulator.jar

Download _JBit2_microemulator.zip_:

<http://sourceforge.net/projects/jbit/files/jbit/Resources/JBit2_microemulator.zip/download>

Extract the content of the archive (_JBit2_me.jad_ and _JBit2_me.jar_).

Convert the assembly source to the *jb* binary format. The resulting
file _must_ be named _out.jb_ for this setup to work. If everything goes
well, the command is silent. Conversion errors are sent to stderr.

    jbit -c jb smile.asm >out.jb

The directory should now look like this:

    JBit2_me.jad
    JBit2_me.jar
    microemulator.jar
    out.jb
    smile.asm

Run the emulator typing the following command (on Windows replace `:`
with `;`):

    java -jar microemulator.jar --appclasspath JBit2_me.jar:.  --propertiesjad JBit2_me.jad JBit

If you press a menu button (one of the two big buttons on either side of
the joypad), you can stop the program. Select _Menu_ and then select
_Debug_ to debug the program.

A fair amount of documentation for the io2 device is available here:

<http://jbit.sourceforge.net/doc/jbdoc.html>

## EXAMPLES

Find constants for IPNGGEN:

    jbit -s io2 | grep IPNGGEN

Clear the screen:

    .device "xv65"
    lda #ESC_CLEAR
    sta CONESC
    lda #ESC_HOME
    sta CONESC

Sleep for 10 seconds:

    .device "xv65"
    lda #REQ_SLEEP
    sta REQPUT
    lda #10
    sta REQPUT
    sta REQEND

Fork a new process:

    .device "xv65"
    lda #REQ_FORK
    sta REQPUT
    sta REQEND
    ; the pid returned by fork() is stored starting from REQDAT

## FILES
  * `/usr/share/jbit/samples`:
    Sample programs.

## ENVIRONMENT

  * `JBIT_PATH`:
    List of one of more directory names separated by colon (:)
    characters used to search for the files to load.

## BUGS

The parser is too permissive, and programs that rely on it, might not
load in future versions of jbit.

The parser does not always provide contextual information. For example,
if a symbol is redefined, the location of the first definition is not
reported.

## AUTHOR

Emanuele Fornara <efornara@users.sourceforge.net>

## SEE ALSO

[Wiki for `jbit`](http://github.com/efornara/jbit/wiki),
[JBit - J2ME Version](http://jbit.sourceforge.net/),
[JBit - Web Application](http://jbit.sourceforge.net/webapp)
