# Introduction #

## JBit

This is the main documentation for JBit. Select the "About" item on the menu
for the list of the key bindings.

JBit is a microcomputer in a phone, and with it you can learn and practice
programming.

JBit is free, and does not require a data connection. However, it does come
without any warranty and it requires dedication and time to be used. Even
large programs like mini games can be done, but this requires some
experience, the ability to plan ahead, and most likely the use of pencil and
paper to organize the code.

If you don't have JBit already, I advise you to download it. Here is the URL
of the main website together with its shortened version.

	jbit.sourceforge.net
	jbit.sf.net

It is fairly lightweight and it should be accessible by most phones. If you
have problems with it or want to save even more kilobytes of bandwith, a
limited wap site is also available:

	jbit.sf.net/m

## News

### JBit 2.1.3

Device std replaces stdout.  Completed FONT tileset.
io2sim: Minimal GAMESET implementation.

### JBit 2.1.2

io2sim: Images and IPNGGEN. MS-DOS minimal libretro frontend.

### JBit 2.1.1

io2sim: Palette and console. Added device id in .jb header.

### JBit 2.1.0

io2sim: libretro core and win32 IO2 simulator (MicroIO only for now).
ZOOM2 flag.

### JBit 2.0.3

The new GAMESET request replaces the old template.jb / JBitGameKit.

### JBit 2.0.2

Basic TTY support in xv65. MicroIO ported to MS-DOS.

### JBit 2.0.1

Record Store API. Android binaries (for terminals, no app). Removed js version.

### JBit 2.0.0

Merged the J2ME, native and javascript repositories.

### JBDoc-20130829 / 1.1.0

There is a new book: ioprg1.

## Versions

### JBit

If you have a fairly recent phone, this version should work and it is the
recommended one.

### JBit2M

If you have a recent (MIDP2) phone, but JBit is too big to run (or to
download), this is another option.

### JBit1M

This is for old (MIDP1) phones. You cannot write interactive, graphical games
or generate images with it, and this version does not include the demos.
However, it might be the only version that works with your phone. In the
past, I have tested it on a real Nokia 3410 and it worked.

## Documents

Select the "Books" item on the menu for the available documentation. JBDoc is
a work in progress and the following list is subject to change.

### tutorial

This is a tutorial that has been written for (and used successfully by)
people with no previous experience in programming. Once you understand it,
you should be able to study the 6502 demos.

### qsref

If you have some previous experience with assembly programming, this is a
terse quick start, followed by some support tables. It should contain
everything you need to know to get you started writing simple, small programs
with JBit.

### ioprg*

A guide on how to program the IO chip. There is an introduction to the
GAMESET, IO requests, a fairly complete treatment of images and an
introduction to sprites.

### modules

At the moment, just a short description of the Paint module.

### ioref

A short description of the registers and requests of the IO chip. It is terse
and it might not make sense to you at all. You can use it to try to decypher
the IO1/IO2 demos.

